feat: Initial payload for EtherFi Ethereum activation (#437)
bgd-labs/aave-proposals-v3: src/20240902_AaveV3EthereumEtherFi_EtherFiEthereumActivation/EtherFiEthereumActivation.md

---

> title: "EtherFi Ethereum Activation"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Aave v3 EtherFi Ethereum Activation"
```

author: "Catapulta"
discussions: "https://governance.aave.com/t/arfc-deploy-an-etherfi-stablecoin-aave-v3-instance/18440"
snapshot: "https://snapshot.org/#/aave.eth/proposal/0x4acd11c6100a6b85a553e21359f3720fa5cd4783a76c77857436ace134f88c05"
---

## Simple Summary

> This AIP activates the EtherFi and Stables Aave V3 instance in Ethereum network, following [ARFQ request](https://governance.aave.com/t/arfc-deploy-an-etherfi-stablecoin-aave-v3-instance/18440).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This AIP activates an Aave v3 EtherFi instance in the Ethereum network, following [ARFQ request](https://governance.aave.com/t/arfc-deploy-an-etherfi-stablecoin-aave-v3-instance/18440), focused on weETH holders borrowing stablecoins.
```

While this $2B growth is welcomed and responsible for ~$12.5M yearly revenue (at current ETH prices) for the DAO, it has created some frustration for significant users looking to borrow stablecoins using their weETH as collateral.

With this asset being constantly at cap, users are wary of leveraging Aave for this use case as they have legitimate concerns about their ability to add more collateral/debt to (de)leverage following market conditions.

To provide weETH holders with more suitable options, we propose creating a dedicated weETH/stablecoin Aave v3 Instance.

This market also lays the groundwork for future integrations & synergies with EtherFi’s Cash product.

## Specification

The Etherfi/Stables Aave v3 instance activation payload implements the following:

- Pre-execution:
  - Register Ethereum EtherFi instance in Ethereum V3 PoolAddressesProviderRegistry with ID 45.
- Execution:
  - Listing of weETH, USDC, PYUSD, and FRAX tokens.
- Post execution:
  - Add PROTOCOL_GUARDIAN as POOL_ADMIN role
  - Add CAPS_PLUS_RISK_STEWARD as RISK_ADMIN role
  - Seed amounts
  - Pay Catapulta service fee

The table below illustrates the configured risk parameters for **weETH**

> | Parameter                 |                                      Value |

Reviewer 2: @kartojal i would add all the assets in a single table as its a bit easier to read

Author: done!
